should be back live
here
hi make sure restream works yeah we're
good so um I'm going to start by seeing
what the heck is wrong with neural
MMO because after that uh that report
that I did
you know
actually hang on is this even bad
wait I'm incredibly confused
now I thought I broke it last night
because this was
flat but now suddenly I
have what
um okay
well that's the weirdest thing I've seen
in RL in a very long
time I guess let me double
check I had this reward clamping from
negative 1 to one
I don't even know how to explain this
so I tried to Port neural MMO right to
the new infra which shouldn't change
anything and then I ran a test to make
sure it worked and I saw it was flat so
I just said ah okay I must have broken
it I'll fix it in the morning but I left
it
running mainly because I was just too
lazy to kill the job
and then it did
this and I mean this looks like it will
probably be
soda now this episode return is scaled
differently so this doesn't matter so
much
I'm trying to think what I can uh
three 39
what was this green
one okay so green one is not the best
one
the brown one doesn't really buy very
much and this one doesn't
either well now I have to leave this
running I have no idea what could have
possibly done this though
the only thing I can think right is I
change the reward scale but it gets
clamped
anyways yeah this gets clamped it's the
same
one this isn't on so none of this
applies State goes here oh technically
wait the only thing I can think here is
technically it changes the magnitude of
some of the observations
that's really minor though that's like
really
minor that would be so weird if that
were
it also why does it take so long to
um to learn anything
this is a
billion I mean actually that's
like yeah look it's like
flat uh point 99 and then it goes up to
83 and then it's
like this thing is like so flat by
comparison is there anything that
changes with the seating or anything
there shouldn't
be I did change the seating though wait
didn't I
yeah I did change the
seating it could technically be
that
morning looking at an RL result that
doesn't make much sense
payday is always the best
day thank you for reminding me I got a
que up uh a
wire Payday the day that I pay
people but it's not every two weeks on
the it's not linked to the start of the
month or
[Music]
anything I guess we'll just
see how this does
as this keeps
running I mean if I were to draw this up
though that looks like that could be a
Fiverr not learning anything for six
billion steps is crazy
though look it learns nothing six
billion steps it doesn't do anything and
then it does this
I guess I should queue up a run
with uh with seating
fixed make sure it's not
that e
you don't even use the
seed you just San time and all
is that time in
seconds yeah that is time in
seconds hey
welcome for
and what the heck has happened with this
I don't feel like doing
that weiro
I just want to launch a new experiment
on
this so now I'm confused because the
plan was to do the infra stuff here but
then we get this crazy wacko result
overnight I've literally never seen this
like six billion steps and then it
suddenly does this
and like that looks like it's on track
to be a soda run it's still
running actually I can do
um yeah so if that's log linear that's
going to be at
least it looks log linear so like that
could very easily be like
a just over a five
crazy of course if it's because of
seeding that's a bit of a different
story um why are we at 500 K uh
kilobytes is the cluster like Wi-Fi
totally screwed up or the cluster
ethernet totally screwed
up the hell is this
I have stuff to check regardless so
we'll still do the I guess the plan's
the same let me see if bet made any
progress with
uh the
[Music]
infra doesn't look like it I'm fine
so we'll get this run queued up and then
we'll go check on um
breakout CU bet did like an initial
merge there so we'll go check on that
and uh we'll see if we can make training
work
there let me train break out real quick
on this just so we make sure that we
have a Baseline to compare to from
before the merge
watching breakout train is something
else like this
is this was literally like
um this used to be really hard to get to
train in like five minutes or whatever
and now this Train's in less than a
minute
look at
that half an
O what
oh order of
magnitude we usually do o is out of
memory in
CS technically we have like a 31 second
speed run of this as well
but it's harder to get that
consistent I'm going to merge this and
fix it
now
e e
and so he changed the any file which is
stupid let me fix the any
file e
that build Breakout
uh it
did that's a little sketchy
looking fine
let's see if I can reproduce the
uh what he said was happening he said it
gets stuck at like 12 score
yeah so that's definitely broken
I bet it doesn't reset the terminal
all or something
weird hey
welcome no this does reset the terminal
is it something wrong with the rapper
itself pong
worked could it be a type
issue it's the D type
here observations float actions rewards
float unsign char car
terminals now this is the same as
before we have this exact same thing in
pong and pong still
works and what did he do here he
did Finding back
log okay don't need
that continuous is false
okay yeah now all this stuff looks fine
to
me unless did you mess up the uh The
Binding
what is this ore paddle
here I got to look that up was it pi r
parse tle and keywords
yeah Star
Format so this is py format string
that's really obnoxious you get like the
new B docks instead of the thing you're
actually looking
for oh is this it
where's the bar
though remaining arguments are
optional the C
variables could be initialized to their
default
values
okay let's make them non optional
see if training still
runs so now it should break if you're
missing
anything that's fine what's your take on
Jack based Ms you singled out crft deck
for praise but I don't see how it's
different to so I honestly think it's a
terrible idea and the thing is that
craftex is impressive because like
that's a crazy way to write an
environment so it's like it's nutty that
they were able to make something work
that way um but if I had just done the
same exact environment in C it would
have been a fraction of the work and it
would be 10 times
faster so there's just absolutely no
point to Jack um the only thing is like
yeah okay mjx is kind of sort of fine
but this is still just not not how you
like array based programming is not how
you do GPU programming in general it's
like a pale limitation of writing Cuda
code
um so yeah I actually have bindings for
craft a in uh in puffer and it only runs
at like 100k you know we write if we
wrote that M and C the code would
probably be the same length or shorter
it would be simpler and it would be
running at a million at least
honestly like Jack in general for M
stuff just doesn't make sense like think
about it for two seconds right so Jack
is a weird array based programming
language it's like an array based domain
specific language in Python the only
reason that this exists is because
people would rather write anything that
kind of looks like python even if it's a
total nightmare versus just writing
anything that isn't
python it's the only reason I can think
of that that
exists
here this is at least as complicated as
craftex right this is neural
MMO we've got big Maps
more interesting procedural gen than
most of
crafter there's a freaking economy you
can buy and sell stuff live on a
market um items equipment weapons all
sorts of
stuff you can get the code for
this here's the
code this is
it one file it's about the same length
as Crafter
and if you just read through it the
code's way
simpler this is like brain dead first
year programming
C no like crazy brain bending array
operations just simple
code and it runs at over 1.5 million
steps per second on a single CPU core so
you get to save your GPU for running the
actual
neuronet read your Tweet about moving
from scon the mostly see do you really
feel something broke I don't know
man maybe it was just like a hard m Al
reset or something it's kind of a
meme
but I don't
know I kind of had like the idea in my
head that I maybe wanted to do something
with C for a bit and I was like Ah
that's kind of dumb and then I don't
know after I was recovering from them
that I just felt like okay I'm feeling
kind of dumb let's try something dumb
and see if it works and it worked really
really
well Jack's functional in compatible
them transfer way too gnarly yeah I
don't I and I don't get the point right
like why make life hard on yourself you
know we have uh we have training in
puffer lib at up to 2.5 million steps
per second in eager
mode I also do have the uh I do have the
50 K article on on
X I don't know I just wanted to do
something really
difficult like I I don't have a great
Athletics background or anything right I
was always like in the bottom 20% of all
the runners in high school you know
never was like a good athlete at all I
was never even an average
athlete so I just wanted to do something
really hard
hard and I will say that compared to the
I'd run two marathons before that and
compared to the two marathons it was
like ridiculously like inexplicably
harder the marathons were flat this one
was all
Hills that was the post that got me
moving very inspiring hey that's why I
post this stuff right we can get more
people staying in shape it's
good I um I hit the Thousand
total about two months after that and
then unfortunately nurs nearly killed me
I was in the hospital with pneumonia
lost almost 20 lbs so I'm slowly getting
my fitness back but it's probably going
to be the better part of a year before
I'm back to that level of Fitness but
I'm still running and lifting most days
the
week don't go to conferences they
freaking kill
you stay at home in
C what did I break with this stupid
thing
I don't know if this is BET breaking it
or if this is me breaking it of the
problem it's weird cuz like you're
getting
reward you're
score you get my PhD can't avoid him yet
yeah I mean I had a bunch of good
meetings there right and I had like all
these new collaborations lined
up and but then it doesn't matter if I
immediately like get everything thrown
off and like can't follow up on any of
the collaborations
anyways but it's all
right conferences usually don't kill you
and they're kind of fine when they don't
and this is the darnest
thing let me just print uh start
printing some stuff
welcome YouTube
folks uh that's
multiprocessor that is
multiprocessing okay so
this is what we have from
info does that look like a reasonable
n 578 episode
length that should be 578,000 steps that
doesn't seem right to me so we'll look
at
that we also don't have a single
terminal
which I would think is
weird we have
reward that seems reasonable
does uh terminals ever get any data into
it it
does it's a lot of terminals to get on
the same tick
it is writing there correctly
okay so bet did fix his
PR because this all looks fine the way
he did this you get mck mcore log
n yeah so bet actually already fixed
this good on him
yeah I don't like
this but that doesn't have anything to
do with
the the game
this was already commented yeah yeah
this was already commented
oh right
here this is screwed
but that should just make it
worse yeah so now it's stuck at seven
isn't that like a really long episode
length episode length should not keep
going up like
that that's really high for seven
score and is now at a reasonable number
of
games what is 10,000 in this it's so
it's 60
FPS
so yeah that's over 100 seconds for
something that's like not even hitting
the ball back
that seems sketchy to
me oh this is
so we're over counting ticks here aren't
we I think we're double counting ticks
because this gets called percept
frame so that's just been getting
overcounted now the unfortunate thing
about this is this is going to fix the
logging but it's just not going to fix
the policy
okay now we should have reasonable
numbers here
right okay so we're stuck at 7
score episode length is uh each each
tick is 1 160th of a
second so now this is something
reasonable for a bad
policy this is
like that's like 50
seconds um 50 seconds for five
lives if you're bouncing it once in a
while that's like that's reasonable
enough now the thing is the length is
still going
up and length going up should imply that
score should go
up so it could just be a logging
bug let's see log sore plus equal m
score
M score plus equal gained
points oh you know what it is I bet that
it's on reset round we probably reset
this score
no we
don't so M score should actually have
then the
correct the correct metrics in
it yeah this is the only spot that you
get reward is when you gain
points you don't even get a negative for
dying you just get the reward for
gaining
points this gets added to score
should we like load up this policy real
quick welcome YouTube
folks I should actually explain what I'm
doing here and why this is important and
actually pretty cool so um for the past
several months pretty much since last
summer
we've been using scyon as our binding
layer for puffer environments so we're
building all these super high
performance reinforcement learning M
right but every time you write one you
have to write a scon file that looks
like this which is this really annoying
header and then this like really
annoying like binding Loop here so this
is 100 some odd lines of code that you
have to add for every single environment
and these can get even longer you know
if you need a longer header file so this
is a few thousand lines of code in
puffer lip across all the different
environments uh it's very error prone it
breaks debugging into C it adds a little
bit of perf overhead not a good
time so what I'm doing now is I came up
with this way to replace cython with
this python API en binding file so this
is only like 500 lines of code and gives
you a really flexible way to just Skip
scon and um bind directly using the
python cap API uh and now all you have
to do for each environment instead of
this like 125 lines of code all you have
to do is write like a very short binding
file like
this and then you're done but apparently
I've broken a couple things in the
process so that's what I'm looking for
now can I hear your opinion about
combining CN with Jack's training code
thank you in advance you're absolutely
free to do it uh it works it works
perfectly fine
if you prefer Jack for some reason we
like our pie torch trainer it's just
easier I haven't really seen a
performance reason or anything to use
Jack uh given that our python trainer is
at like 2.5 million steps per second or
even up to 5 million for really small
models um and like the Jack training
ecosystem is kind of a mess honestly if
you look at all the RL libraries and
Jacks here
and let me be clear here this is not an
insult to Chris Chris is good at his
work so the fact that the code looks
like this is a dig on Jack not a dig on
Chris all right just watch the number of
functions that stack
up one two three was that four five six
deep we six nested function deaths
deep this is like utterly stupid
code it's not really any shorter than
the same thing in clean RL with um with
P torch either it's just
Messier there's not really much
point so I haven't seen a reason to play
with Jacks at all because every time
I've touched it's been a pain and even
the you know the best repositories in it
RMS I'm not saying I'm perfectly happy
with pytorch mind you P torch has like a
ton of overhead on uh their bindings and
on their Cuda La Cuda kernel launches so
like getting like really nice fused
kernels and stuff um uh would be really
good but then it just comes down to
whether CH Jack or torch generates
better
kernels building using the new nnx API
so thanks for your opinion I mean if you
link me code if you link me like an RL
train code that uses it I can see if it
looks any cleaner to
me like Jack down the line maybe in a
couple years Jax is great but right now
it's just
like honestly uh more so than pytorch or
Jax or whatever I'm more excited for the
python
314 threading if that actually works
correctly it would make uh it would
allow us to improve our vectorization
code by quite a bit because we have to
use really janky multiprocessing stuff
at the moment so it would rip out a lot
of the Jank that we've had to do and
make a couple things a bit
faster so this should be the model that
we just trained
bet this does not
work unless this is my system being
weird that's
Jank wait that shouldn't even be
possible yeah that shouldn't be possible
um
um does it draw the
text it draws the text but then draws
this massive green
square oh you know I
wonder hang on
I find Jack to be pretty nice for being
able to ignore batch Dimension and then
just V map
later which I found when do you need to
ignore the batch dimension
Vibe coding with
grock there's no vibe coding with grock
going
on definitely not there
is there's like prototyping stuff with
unfamiliar
apis I mean if you saw that what I was
doing there so I was trying to figure
out how I would do stuff with the python
Capi there really aren't many code
examples for the python C API so I was
seeing if it could prototype stuff and
basically what happened there is it just
it kept giving me garbage code I kept
trying to get it to clean it up like 10
times in a row just to see if you can
actually write decent stuff and then
eventually it crashed so I quit out of
it and I did it
myself I think if you see some of my
content you'll see I uh I really don't
like relying much on language models
because they write terrible code and uh
honestly the biggest way that I use like
the the most often the llm that I use
the most often is just the super Maven
model for single line
autocomplete it's cool to see the
process well I do that so what I did
there I actually I do that for both math
and for code right where it's like I'll
have an idea and I'm just trying to like
get it to prototype stuff just to see
like what is possible um I'm always
fighting the model though with that like
it really doesn't feel like these things
are very smart like on the math side
frankly the best thing that it can do is
to like convert text to latch quickly so
I can actually like see what I'm trying
to think about without having to write
all the text out and like on the code
side it can like get API calls to kind
of work but it writes terrible code so
it's still very very limited it's never
the type of thing where you just like
you know do it drop the code in and
you're
done but yeah I use it for math because
I don't have a great math background so
a stupid language model can actually
still be helpful and then in programming
I typically I only use it for uh
unfamiliar apis right so like I had
never used the python C API before
and there's not really great docks on it
either the docks are pretty
limited I do highly recommend super
Maven
though on batch them I found I had to be
aware of all the dimensions of the
data was Jacks I could write a function
to work on the
dimensions I'm interested in them then
VAP it
later but I'm a convert to the Church of
puffer now for real well okay the thing
is I kind of handle some of that for you
in puffer like the only time that would
ever really be a problem in RL
anyways is when you have lstm versus
uh non lstm right because lstm adds a
Time Dimension during the training step
but not during the forward and all the
other rest of the time you know you
don't have that extra Dimension so what
does puffer do we just reshape it so
that you never have to deal with the
time Dimension during your networ call
so you never have to think about it
either way and what did that take that
took me adding a few lines to our lstm
in order to get that to work and then
you just never have to deal with it um I
still have to deal with it occasionally
in fact I spent a couple hours hunting
down a bug yesterday in that but that
was like the result of a bad port and
you can like equally shoot yourself in
the foot in similar ways with Jacks so I
don't know I've been happy with
this and it's just going to keep getting
much better as well it's just going to
keep getting much better all the stuff
and
puffer I mean think about it this has
been if you look at at where RL was one
year ago and you look at where RL was
today with puffer huge
difference and I'm like I'm one guy just
working on this stuff plus a few
contributors making some cool ends
right so yeah this is going to really
start taking
off e
un batch them wait was
it Nur M4
president Geo jail well nah tiny grad's
cool as well I there's just like there's
no way in hell I'm going to convert
puffer to Tiny grad right because like
or even Jack for that matter because the
vast majority of people in the industry
are using pie torch and pytorch is at
the like in the worst case it's still a
toss up right between pytorch and Ja so
like I'm going to use the thing that
lets us support more people in Industry
um you know I have to at least be able
to have a few RL clients here and there
right I'm doing this
fulltime
um that said you know tiny grad's an
awesome project I don't see anything
wrong with
it I will say both as of yesterday
geohot and uh andine so both your you
know your Twitter influencers they've
both declared defeat to reinforcement
learning
so they should have used Puffer
what is even green
here something is like yeah there it is
and brick width is
massive there you
go so did he just forget
this no he didn't just forget this
brick width and brick height are right
here
so do you forget it in The Binding
file
see conations num Ms so we
get frame skip withd
height paddle width paddle height ball
width ball height
Bri with Bri typ bck rows Bri calls and
continuous okay so somehow this
broke buffer versus tiny
grad I mean I haven't used tiny grad
like it seems like a cool project yes
pie torch is super bloated um they kind
of golf their code a little bit much for
no reason I don't know why they do that
but it's overall it's a very cool
project and we definitely need more
stuff like
that like I also have a crazy focus on
keeping stuff simple and concise and
puffer Li but we do not golf
anything line count is only a a proxy
for
Simplicity if you want to actually
enforce Simplicity there's not like a
thing you can measure but it's it's just
don't be stupid
right yeah so this got unpacked
completely wrong
somehow oh I wonder if it's the types
hang
on yeah I wonder if this is the types
I thought I checked it
though what's brick width and brick
height these are both inss
right
continuous oh these are floats wait why
are these def find his floats
yeah none of these things are the paddle
width and Hider
floats the ball
width and height are
in Rose
calls yeah the only thing here is that's
a float is the
uh with the paddle width and the paddle
height
that's weird all right let's see what
this thing
does I remember reading somewhere car
path used Cuda instead of tiny bre
because it got turned off at all the
cold
golfing I'll end up
see well C is also just
chill I had to write a very small amount
of Cuda recently and that was also chill
like if you know C you know
Cuda at least enough Cuda to do useful
stuff it's literally the C that runs on
the GPU you can paste your C in and then
it'll run
okay so there we go now this thing
actually
renders struggling to get above 80% goal
reaching can you take a look at the
latest run yes I can let me at least cue
this so that this runs while I look at
it all right
Spenser when do we get to make the map
like neon Knight
city is this not the
80% I see 50
for e
take a ton of stuff to get to
Ram haven't swept well there's your
first
problem is this uh current yeah these
are current defaults which are usually
pretty good
you do have to sweep them
though so it's worth doing that have you
watched the model at all have you like
loaded up the model and watched what it
does possible screw-ups Right are like
sweeps um masking masking could screw
stuff up
right and because like the cars can die
or
whatever and Hyper like
sweeps um masking or if you load up the
policy and it's obviously doing
something weird like maybe OBS are wrong
why does it go up here Collision right
goes well score keeps going up so maybe
that's fine
[Music]
I'll look at your losses real quick I
didn't see
anything yeah nothing obviously broken
Spencer I just suggest load up the
policy make sure there's not something
insane with the OBS and then run a
sweep and uh you probably want to
log you probably want to log the
um the percentage of agents that are
like currently alive or whatever you'd
actually you want to know how many
agents are being masked out right that's
probably a good idea pix
is
extension pix is scon that's the scon
file format
uhuh okay now we have score
zero was it zero the whole
time yeah this is flat at zero
that's weird because I
thought this at least renders it
correctly now
right um the score is going negative
what is this
okay this is not supposed to play this
quickly either
so this got broken
somehow the existing model still runs
though
set Target FPS
60 that's
weird oh frame skip is set to
four why is that
there we
go you notice it's not getting any
points it looks like the scores just
counted wrong
yeah brick calls
oh that's
interesting is the max 4
896 so has it just been this
way I thought it was
860 h
maybe this has been a bug for a
while but is it this way on the
website how dumb are
we no see this works it's on the website
here working
16 how many points is it supposed to be
for each brick
that's
weird e
7 -
3 over n brick
columns okay let's just put the break
point here
does this not get
called for
okay this should actually get
called
yeah so interesting that it's this
I guess is this one frame skip that's
really
weird oh CU it's not this end it's one
of the other
ones that's
fine X
93 are there 93
bricks right
well they're not 18 columns
right that's not a
thing how many columns are it supposed
to
be I have this get messed up
all right let's see so one
two three
four
five
6 and
eight maybe there are 18
columns okay so if there are eight
columns
how is this formula suddenly
wrong e
like why was this maybe this was just
broken before because we have all our
runs topping out at like 864 or whatever
instead of
896 you would think that that would
break more stuff
though and that we would notice that
earlier e
okayy
4477 is what you should get
so this is a this gain points is a float
this seems completely screwed up
though is this what we had in the uh the
original or did this somehow get screwed
up
okay well this file is very
different seven so this was the
same except that this was not
cast so this would give you an in
so this is screwed
up when did this float cast get added
see this got added relative did bet just
do this
damn it it was you bet
why the [__] did he do this
it train now e
B to run
harder can we get link from this
stva I think I'd have to go sync
it St forly while you're running if you
can reply while you're running you're
not running hard
enough you
[Music]
know all right so this is still not
sporing
it looks like it's just
um yes it's like the second row is
required or what you have to hit the
second row or the third
row let me see what this thing was
originally see the original formula
doesn't look great to me either
you be
running I may like go sync this DV
data yeah I'm going run
harder I want reasonably
or this
morning there
so these things also shouldn't have
changed but this looks like it's still
screwed
up so this would give you seven
or four it should give you seven or four
or one
so maybe now we can actually debug this
thing oh yeah I also wanted to go run
the
uh the neural MMO thing now that it
downloaded
and I'm pretty darn confident that
that's not going to be the
problem just de seeding way more likely
something like this
so this is
two and
points negative 0.5
oh it's supposed to be over two not 2
pointf right did he do that as well yep
he
did yes he did
got you
bet I don't know even know why he did
that two three
four okay so now can we train a
model let's see
that actually trains we'll see if it
does as well
why is 864 the max score
solid now that
works and Max four
864 is Max
is that not the the max score of Atari
is 864
right I think it
is e
good still
trains and we will go from
here and then we'll go double check Nur
Mo because it's quite possible I screwed
up the D type
there and we'll have to get some sort of
check so that that doesn't happen
my heck is
this Optimizer folks
all right well this is train still
right still just the
same so we can commit this
now for
okay so now for neural myo
so Whitten width and height are
ins
players enemies resources weapons gems
all
ins see te int
levels tepor titis is a float
Alo why these notifications keep going
off constantly isn't there a streamer
mode thing for this that should stop
this from spamming the hell out of
me yeah there we
go okay so teleport Titus
float respawn ticks item respawn
ticks
window and then reward where's the
reward
yeah all these are floats
so I mean this string looks correct to
me
initially let's
see one two three
four five six 7 8 nine 10 so the 10th
one should be the
float 1 2 three four five six seven 10
yeah that is correct that is
correct
um and
then four and then one yeah these are
all
correct so that is uh surprisingly not
the
issue maybe it is actually the
seating maybe it is actually the
seating that'd be really weird though
I mean the only thing I can think of is
like
technically it was probably just
instantiating the same
map I guess
there any other weird
stuff that could mess it up
and you didn't pass players enemies or
rewards right which is in in
float players enemies
rewards but then in a
knit you actually now allocate this
right and
then rewards is now correct
this shouldn't mess up observations that
this is a
charar because it takes the type
spawn Texs
both
pong and breakout now work perfectly as
soon as I corrected the
bindings neural
MMO has a very large
gap the only thing I can think about is
is that Rand function
though could I have screwed anything
else up in the process here
I mean like I wouldn't think
so I mean but you get that thing
consistent depending on
it's not even like I over optimize to a
fix seed it uses the time as the
seed
right so I can have broken
that I mean I guess I can just go
through the neural
MMO commit or
whatever it's weird because it's not
even like I broke the environment it's
just it's different now and that's weird
let let me actually cue a job on seed
just in case because I don't want to
waste a ton of time if it has it it does
actually end up being like something
stupid like this seeding
change e
we also have
uh right over there I've got a 90
machine to unbox later today I'll
probably do that on stream we'll do some
perf tests with
it well this is sketchy right
oh but this is yeah this is not an uh a
thing that we're bothered about
okay and then we
have where's the one that we care
about nurma Mo should be here
somewhere there it is so there's our
binding
okay so this works is there anything
weird
here you could
try logging episode length here
this doesn't look crazy far off
right it starts to get
higher quite quickly
though yeah that's very different
it would have to be some variable in the
environment itself getting messed up you
would
think yeah we'll uh we'll at least we'll
do the run
properly e
all
right oh and this will actually be good
because this will have the
original reward scale
so we'll see if it's somehow the reward
skill messing things
up
yeah Co that'll
run that should be back
soon um we got break at working
though I don't want to like mess with
neurl MMO
because if this works then I'll be
wasting my time
so I think I go do some stuff on meta
for a
bit and then
um we come back to this once we have
some experiment data
let me go get the Run command for
that e
oh it's actually just on the repo hang
on e
what is this
file okay this is a quick fix yeah there
should be as soon as this thing does
something this is a quick
fix uh W being and it is freaking stuck
I don't know why that
is we'll just run it this
way policy
URI e
it needs uh it needs actually to have
some experiments I
think
so e
it get this maybe you need to pass
checkpoints
directly that looks
better error locating
this has got to just be setup stuff
right
e
e e
we should actually be able to get
comparable results in the perer repo to
this now that I'm thinking about
it that'd be
nice
e e
what the hell's wrong with this stupid
thing
no module name
metagrid
what
oh um
wait Fork merge RL
po the
hell why is that in there
hey
welcome and C at the same time more
refactoring no so um the refactor stuff
we have breakout and pong now working
neural MMO did something weird so I have
a follow-up experiment running in the
background I'm doing some quick fixes
for meta right now and then probably
we're going to come back to either
neural MMO or I might just unpack this
new box on stream cuz I've got the uh
the first 5090 machine in got the box
sitting right there so we might do the
perfect benchmarks for that would be
fun and we'll see how fast that can
go I have to turn the AC up even more in
my
room because it's going here for
now e
1590 I yeah we're hoping that we get a
good speed bump we'll see
how much faster is the new bindings it's
like the
same I mean it's kind of hard to tell
for those it's like a tiny bit slower
for pong it's like 10% faster for neural
MMO
um like it fundamentally this thing adds
no overhead and like whatever overhead
scyon adds is not going to be there so
if scon like generates really well
optimized code it should be about the
same speed and if it doesn't generate
really well optimized code then well you
know there'll be a speed
Improvement it is very nice though you
will
see GDB Works through python now
what happened to this thing why don't I
have
this why is this not
clone
e
e e
what is
this
dict
okay oh because it doesn't
pass yeah it doesn't pass
state e
you don't have a trainer here right you
don't have a trainer
oh actually I can just
do hang on
yeah I don't have to do any of that
because I can just do
this e
the state is
not e
yeah this is a poer li.
namespace e
that should fix the
uh what is it the
logits e
and then this thing has to be the same
right
and I guess that worked
because it wasn't loading any
opponents e
policy state
well that didn't freaking work what the
hell was this not the same
thing oh wait
h ah logic value my
bad then state gets modified in
place e
it's not immediately crashing
says 60 seconds so we'll see if it
returns in a
minute anything else I think is going to
go wrong
here doesn't look like
it God damn
it what is this
hey bet how's it
going uh this is me just fixing up some
stuff on meta different environment I
got
breakout so breakout
Works clean curves that's committed and
like all pushed
I the re Okay the reason it took me so
long to figure out that the float like
that the score is what has changed is
like I don't normally that's not
something that you would touch like why
did you just start casting stuff
randomly well it's not like a category
of error I expect right because like why
would you randomly add a
cast like you know how inivision works
right
yeah but like regardless like why would
you yeah but it was intentional in
division
right no reason skill
issue fair
enough I guess you were trying to fix
stuff but like yeah okay well it works
now whatever neural MMO did something
really weird so I thought I broke neural
MMO and I kind of
did but um it does this now so it does
nothing for six billion steps and then
it does
this so we'll see how this
works it surely wasn't the
inivision no what was wrong was the fact
that it was we were intentionally doing
integer division before and then you
added task to floats which is going to
change the outcome of that operation in
division is going to round down so when
you changed it all to float you removed
all the rounding from it and it was
calculating points completely
wrong which is why I'm just like I don't
know why you would randomly add like I
don't know why you would randomly add
like cast to stuff
though setting up Dev yeah okay
h e
bell. evaluate
oh this is a different puffer
right this is a different Puffer
what this is just like Aaron's puffer
Branch or
whatever I just had a different local
install no big deal
what's next better are you going to be
porting more are you going to do like
Enduro and
stuff if not I will slowly work on
porting all the MS but you know you do
you you do kind of need a train curve
before and after I'll do all of
them all
right all the puff
Ms you might have a bit of
trouble I probably should do MOA because
we do the logging a bit weird in that
one
um but yeah you're free to Port them
just if there's weird logging don't make
hims the logging in the
process it's also not all final right
like we might come up
with we might still come up with
improvements to this stuff
but it be mostly the
same the goal is to finish this and then
probably unpack the box and then
hopefully still have time to like think
a bit about what we can improve with the
logging and The Binding Str string
Shenanigans and all the other eror prone
[__]
I'm tired
today get more
sleep
there I don't think I can pull this up
on my desktop but we'll show you this
stupid stupid graph from
today does that
show it doesn't show a phone
oh there you
go I suggest that for
you that's um four blocks of intervals
it's four blocks of four minutes fast
with a minute and a half a rest
between cool this actually runs now
perfect now we do
Play oh yeah it's a hard
workout if I I'm feeling good it's close
to 7 minute pace if not it's like
eight for the faster
sections it was like 6:30 uh or whatever
Pace 615 630 Pace before I got sick but
we'll get that back
how hell is this thing broken
util
config where
up
play e
so this is actually none
big. E.M
I'm just going to guess on
this e
internal
Triton dude you should just be able to
disable the comp the compilation
is this on your personal box or
what you could PR them the uh like a
non-comp mode or whatever
but you could also like they just
they're going to there's some line where
they're just compiling it that you can
probably just
comment it is kind of stupid though
probably
works
e e
is it worth youing using
muon well it's been awesome for
everything we've been
doing set soda by a mile on a lot of
stuff I mean the thing is you don't
necessarily have to fix it now right
I'll like I'll get to it you can use
Adam for
now you're not really like doing soda
Benchmark stuff right now
right
e
e e
there we
go okay that's
done that wasn't
terrible that wasn't
terrible oh that's funny so this now
actually does
track this tracks way better with the
original
right and most like the logging
frequency is a little different
maybe but yeah this perfectly tracks
cool and this should perfectly track the
yeah this
one
so was it the seaing
wait oh because I do have the
yeah it must have been the seating
that's
weird so I guess we'll see ultimately
how this one does it's probably better
uh the way I have it here but this is
like why does it take so long to learn
anything I wrote an En in torch in torch
RL for a
project can you look at it and give me a
suggestions
sure and Tor they have their own M stuff
or is it just bound to torl if you link
it I'll take a
look how is torture o
doing we're less than a th Stars off
over the RL library with metab backing
that's not bad
is Vincent still doing this I thought he
got pulled for tensor dick but it looks
like he's still doing a few things oh CI
okay fixs wheels so I think he's mostly
doing tensor dick
stuff where's a star graap
oh it's still
linear people are still using
it if we're calling breakout good
shouldn't we remove s breakout we're
going to remove scon files after we
actually like are happy with all the
perf tests and stuff so for now in Dev
we're leaving scon stuff alone so that I
can continue to run some perf tests
because like the M binding stuff may
still change and I want to make sure
that I don't lose perf with anything I
might decide to
change okay so this is good I mean we
have this
now
um it's weird this shape doesn't make
any any sense to me
here this shape doesn't make sense to
me it's okay for
now it's not that it doesn't immediately
train it's that it doesn't train for six
billion
steps it's billion with a B it's a lot
of
steps and then it looks like it gets so
S no no no the only difference is the
seating between these two runs the only
difference is
seating I think in The
Originals so it uses the time as the
seed but because it initializes so fast
and the time is in seconds it probably
just initializes the same map uh four
times in a
row whereas here now it's probably
initialize unique
Maps but it shouldn't take it 6 billion
steps to get any reward either way
that's
weird that's okay though it'll still
give us a soda
model
hopefully yeah we we'll deal with
that uh I'm still waiting for the
environment link
unless it's in the puffer
Discord you might have to post it in the
puffer Discord if YouTube's eating your
links if I don't see it here then I'm
not seeing
it news rest from real quick and then
we'll look at that that m is posted and
if not we'll uh we'll unbox the 590 and
see if we can set that up real
quick be right back
for
e e
all right no EnV link it
seems YouTube
sucks is that you on a different account
with the
link there we go I was just about to go
open this
box poly time
Oracle 200 some modline
n what is this going to be
PA e
oh
jeez so when you said your Tor LM if you
weren't kidding it's literally like all
torch operations
wait trying to learn a polinomial Time
algorithm RL yeah and that's a cool
thing to try to do hard thing to try to
do
see e
for context if you SE in the way that we
write our
MS I have a problem where run BDS many
of them
halt but I still have to continue for
the ones that have not halted usually
you would reset the ones that have
halted you put Tech tick in frame step
Loop yeah we were double counting
bet the episode length was messed up we
were double Counting
well this looks like you had absolutely
no
fun jeez
have you seen the way that we write our
MS in puffer right like that's the
question have you seen the way that we
write our MS
NOP okay so which of the following
sounds easier to like here let look
which of the following sounds easier to
you doing this where you have to write
every single thing that happens in your
environment as an array operation so
this isn't python right this looks like
python but this is not python this is
domain specific array language or being
a able to write arbitrary like loops and
conditionals with no need to vectorize
anything and having it still be
fast which of those two sounds
easier what we do with our
MS you know all these
M let's open up code for like snake or
something second one right now there's a
catch but it's not as much as of a catch
you would
think all
right this is snake it's in C oh c is
very scary not really this all this
logging is going away in the next update
so you can ignore that so really this is
like less than 300 lines of code and if
you actually look at the logic this is
how you compute the observations you
just Loop over the state and put the
observations
there add and delete snakes
you just write the logic out loops and
conditionals right resp to loops and
conditionals loops and conditionals
loops and conditionals literally just
very simple
code but it's not slow because it's not
python like these M's run up to tens of
millions of steps per
second you're showing a 3X nested Loop
which
one that's because the array is
two-dimensional and then it's one per
snake would this still run at 1 M steps
per second on a 32 thread CPU no this
would this particular one would run at
about 10 million steps per second on one
thread on that
CPU pretty much the only place where
you're going to get into trouble right
is if your environment itself requires
like High Fidelity physics or something
and then yeah you kind of want to
implement it on the GPU but doing it in
like torture Jacks is still not the
answer then you have to go to like you
know you go to physx or you go to like
you know you start writing your own Cuda
or
something because it's still easier than
writing a bunch of array operations and
easier to make
faster and then you know if you're
writing Cuda you're basically writing
this exact same type of code but now
you're writing it on the
GPU and if you're like concerned about
complexity
right so here it's way easier to write
more complex M's in puffer than it is in
Jax or torch RL same thing forch this is
neural MMO
right big
map freaking Dynamic economy you can buy
and sell stuff all sorts of complexity
that would be really hard to express as
a ray operations uh this thing runs 1.5
million agent steps per second on a
single CPU
core it's very
fast so this is why it's like annoying
to me when people get like into the
Jacks and like the torch M ecosystem
it's just such a such a pain in the ass
way to write codes like look you had
absolutely no fun doing this I can see
just looking at the logic right you had
absolutely no
fun like I wouldn't be surprised if the
code ended up being shorter in C than it
is right here because of all these crazy
array operations
at least if you count characters not
lines with how long these
are so my suggestion would be if you're
like if you're wanting to do a bunch of
M stuff and you're wanting to do a bunch
of RL stuff like at least give it a try
the way we build our MS
because it can be a lot easier than it
is now it can be so much easier so
rewrite it as a puffer R hey if he wants
to right if he wants to try it out like
I think it's a worthwhile exercise if
you're coming from like trying to write
array op M's just rewriting one of your
M's in uh in C and just seeing that it's
actually not that
painful right
it's actually quite
easy CU I know for me it would be way
harder to write this it would be so much
harder for me to write this than to
write the same code and
C especially with our new tools now
where we can like debug through Python
and all that
okay PR incoming
awesome oh also you get to render you
get to make uh rendering with uh with
puffer as well like it's really easy to
add cool graphics because we just binded
RB right so this is RB this is the whole
client for snake this is all the code
that we this is all the code that we
have for rendering the snake environment
Isn't that
cool and this will run on the web too so
you can just upload your demos to the
web you can compile the C to web
assembly I say give it a
try you might be pleasantly
surprised plus like lowle Dev is
fun lowle Dev is fun
at least here I wrote python for 10
years during my undergrad and my PhD uh
mainly because I had a just horrendous
horrendous Professor for my systems
courses and it really like put me off of
the whole thing but it's honestly super
fun and super easy and you can just make
everything really high performance with
zero dependencies and zero headaches
it's like so
nice it's like going from all those the
way that modern software is written back
to just simple C it's such a breath of
fresh air just all the stupid problems
go away everything is Fast by default
code is simple it's
great and then there are only a few
small tricks you need to know right like
compile with f sanitize when you're
debugging so that you don't actually
ever have to debug a seg fault run GDB
so that you get a break point whenever
the thing is going to try to seg fault
right stuff like that
but now for the next
segment this one is
chunky right here we got the new
desktop let me see if I can move this
all
right just cut my foot open on
it now we're
good see if I can open it with this
you're looking stronger than
me I'm not lifting much these days
honestly I'm mainly putting the weight
back on
oh this is cool
looking see if I have
this right side up or not
hang on let me move the camera a little
bit there we
[Music]
go I'm trying to think if I want to flip
this upside down I think what I want to
do is flip this box upside down and then
take the cardboard off the
top hey Joseph I have a quick question
about how to make my M episodic and
reset instead going on forever is
calling my reset function in my cep
based on a certain condition okay to do
or is the better way that's absolutely
okay to do uh there's like a very minor
debate going on as to like whether you
know the VM should reset it or not but
yeah you just you can call uh you call
reset yourself but then you set terminal
equals one you have to do both of those
yep exactly that's how we do it in
puffer at the moment we might come up
with something better in the future but
the thing is that uh
otherwise like otherwise you end up with
problems as to like do call reset in a
loop in python or do it in
C
whatever okay let me flip this over this
is a chunky like this thing is heavy
this is way heavier than the other
desktops
bues with a giant pack of
cable and we've got it upside down
think this is just loose in here what is
that unpacking the new 90
machine I don't know what this is
okay this has to get
flipped and just have to figure out how
to get this
out e
I'm going to R be it's going to be my
personal popper box on you will get
access to one when we order more of
them how much do you deadlift two puffer
boxes I had uh my best pull was 410 for
two with straps um but that was before
pneumonia kicked my ass so now I like if
I did if I train for like just even a
few weeks I'd be back to maybe a
um but I haven't been training heavy
lately I'm really just trying to get my
body weight back to
190 so I'm doing like you know bunch of
bench bunch of squats sets of
12 this thing looks awesome I'm not
going to lie I'll let me get
the I got to get the um the packing
material out of it and then I'll show
it honestly this case is even cooler
than uh the typical glass
ones but I do need to go get a
screwdriver be right back
for e
okay you move over a little
bit for
maybe let me get this chair out of the
way actually that'll be more
fun all right
I'm going to go GPU
broke well puffer is attempting to fix
that in RL at least
you know we do give contributors access
to
boxes this is box number
10 this is the first 5090 box I've
gotten though
I see so I didn't actually need to take
all these scws out these were for front
and back
panel but this just comes off
it's like a mesh pane it's not glass
it's kind of
cool probably want to keep the wherever
you have this not super Dusty that's
pretty
cool holy
look at that
cooler wait what the
heck what is this
so I don't know if you can uh see it but
that's like a double wide
cooler your box arrived main be here
says my box is entered production yeah
it took a while I mean I ordered this
pretty much right when they uh right
when they came out before they were even
listed on the
website I'm pretty sure
These are nice cases as
well I actually like the mesh on it I
thought it was like going to be like a
weird mesh material but it's just a
metal
mesh okay
well let's um
I guess
we screw it back
together and uh we plug it in and we see
what this thing does it should already
have a buntu on it
hang on is this supposed to be
there now this looks like peel away so
the panels come with some plastic that
you remove
now let me see how to do
this for
what
okay and now the
uh back panel nothing special with
this
solid I will say that this case this
case is actually really well put
together a lot of The Other Des toop
cases like the panels are a pain to get
to line up correctly this one just lines
up perfectly very easily
screws are a little tight
yeah okay there's one thumb screw that
needs a screwdriver
okay so oh yeah let me show the front of
this as well cuz this case is really
cool it's got like this wood front to
it with like three Gigantic fanss on
this
yeah they're like giant fans three giant
fans doing airflow for this this is
really well put together I like
this I still don't know what this piece
is
for oh
I kind of have to flip it upside down to
do that
though I don't even know if it does
anything
so here's what I'm going to
do I'm going to leave the stream open on
that
monitor I'm going to try to see if I can
get this thing set up
here and
uh then we'll get some experiments
running on
it assuming this setup doesn't suck
let me see where I can put this
let me see how I can get the monitor
cable that's going to be annoying
should I plugged it in on the other
side I probably should have plugged this
in on the other side
huh yeah let me go move
it I guess I can at least turn it on
once over here
I'm pretty excited about this
thing right
cool yeah it doesn't light up with all
the colors of the rainbow because it's a
serious
machine for serious people
quiet it's actually really quiet on
Startup all right um I'm going to go
plug it in over there so I can swap the
monitor over I'm going to move the chair
back and then we are going to do a quick
little bit of setup pretty much should
just have to like pull the puer repo and
uh we should be able to get experiments
on it
it's
see where the monitor cable
is for
uhoh well we'll see what that does to
the
stream um I just need the keyboard and
mouse
all
right so um
I now have my monitor all screwed
up shoot and I disconnected the
keyboard let me let me just do one thing
with this so I can actually see the
screen
D
catcher all
right let me go to
this okay we'll leave this for now and
then I got to plug that machine ma in
and I can set it up
I might be out
[Music]
outlets this just goes toer
probably oh that's just a chair good
okay
screen should come
on all I got to do is get this
thing I broke the
chat I'll get the chat back after I set
it
up but
um I got all I got to do here is I got
to install tail scale and um whatever
else it's probably just tail scale in
our Docker
container e
let me see if I can at least pull up the
um stream on my phone
so I can see the YouTube chat at
least that's all I've got up
now e
it shouldn't take too long
the longest thing will be downloading
the docker
container I have a 24.0 4 on this
box
and oh I'm stupid I don't have it
plugged into
ethernet hang on
yeah I got to get another cable don't
I that's
annoying and I'm pretty sure that yeah I
go to I just got to go get another
ethernet cable I'll be
back
e
e e
I found the long Ethernet cable
what
oh
post new
box hey
bet
F what
ether that
much cable
unplugged God damn it
still
no the hell
well that's a pain in the
ass let me think if I got any other
ethernet
ports yeah I don't have any other
ethernet ports [__] um
um I'm trying to think what I would do
so I think I might have to um well no I
can't even like end the stream or
whatever because I'm going to need both
portch
working I mean I could technically go
hook this thing up in the puffer cluster
I
guess I've got spare space over
there if I take this to the
garage it's like 100 some odd degrees
outside do not want to carry the box
outside in
that like in like 200% humidity or
whatever I'm trying to think if it's
more likely that it's going to be the
cable that's
bad or the port
I could technically go get the
switch let me go get a
switch I do have a spare switch let me
go get the
switch
e
e e
it's hot out there
it is so hot out
there unfortunately I think I'm still
short one ethernet
cable yeah cuz they didn't give me one
okay I thought this thing has a Wi-Fi
card no
me reboot this
first make sure that it's not literally
just some weird reboot
bug because it is plugged into
ethernet e
all right
well unfortunately I think I'm just
going to have to end the stream and go
set this thing up because I only got
one available ethernet port and I don't
have another cable to that I need for
the
switch um so I think I'm just going to
end stream for now and then I'll like go
set this thing up and then I'll report
back in and then uh yeah I'll probably
grab some food as well and I'll just be
back you know after I have this all
working and we'll go from
there so thanks folks and uh yeah I will
be back in a bit star po or live on
GitHub to support I'll be back once I
have all this stuff
and I can't even click the end stream
button but I need that ethernet cable